                                                        Sparkify
Introduction:

    A music streaming  start-up, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs.
                                                 In this app we are building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.
                                                 
Project Datasets:

        We have worked with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:
                •Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
                •Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

Song Dataset:

    The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.
            For eg : song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
                     song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

Log dataset:

    The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above.
            For eg: log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
                    log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

     And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
    {"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}

Schema for sparkify App:

    Fact Table:
    
      1.songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
                 • songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
                 
    Dimension Tables:

      1.users - users in the app
             a.user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
      2.songs - songs in music database
             a.song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
      3.artists - artists in music database
             a.artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
      4.time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
             a.start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


Project Template:

    The project template includes two files excluding this file:

        etl.py : In this file we have read data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3.
         1.	In this we Implement the logic in to load data from json files residing in S3 to panda dataframe using spark.

    2.	After that we Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from Panda to analytics tables.

    3.	After that the table are loaded back to S3.

    Dl.cfg:  Contains our AWS credentials